README.md, before:

# route-metrics

`route-metrics` allows server performance, exclusive of network time,
to be compared on a route-by-route basis. It was created to compare server
performance with and without `@contrast/agent` being loaded and active.

`route-metrics` measures the elapsed time of http/https requests from the
the time that the `request` event is emitted to the time the response's
`end` function is called. Elapsed time is measured in microseconds but is
output in milliseconds by default.

`route-metrics` writes a log file in which each line is JSON. the log files
can be interpreted using the included `log-processor`.

## usage

As usual, execute `npm install @contrast/route-metrics` to install it.

But, unlike most packages, `route-metrics` is not required by your program.
The `route-metrics` agent must be run by importing it on the node command line.

```
$ node --import @contrast/route-metrics my-web-server.js
```

If another package, say `@contrast/agent`, is being required on the command
line, then `route-metrics` must be required first:

```
$ node --import @contrast/route-metrics -r @contrast/agent my-web-server.js
```

This allows server performance, exclusive of network time, to be compared
with and without other packages installed. `route-metrics` writes a json
log file, `route-metrics.log` by default.

## processing the log file

Once the `route-metrics` agent has been used to generate a log file, it's
useful to do something with the output. The included log-processor can be
executed via `npm run log-processor` and will look for the default log file
in the current directory, `./route-metrics.log`. To specify a different log
file or location, `npm run log-processor dir/other-file-name.log`.

The log processor will read the log file, output some informational text,
and use the requested reporter to write the output.

Informational output is enclosed in brackets, e.g., `[this is information]`. So
if the reporter is writing to the default, file descriptor 1 (stdout), the lines
enclosed in brackets are not part of the report. They should all preceed the
reporter output in any case.

### csv reporter output

The first line after the informational lines is the header line.

The percentiles are calculated using the smallest value that is greater than
or equal to the specified percentile of values; no interpolation is done.

### json reporter output

This reporter writes no informational output. It writes the data gathered from
the log file as a single JSON object. The code is the only documentation for it
at this time.

## configuration

All route-metrics agent configuration is done via environment variables. The environment variables
are shown with their default values.

- `CSI_RM_LOG_FILE=route-metrics.log`
- `CSI_RM_GARBAGE_COLLECTION=false`
- `CSI_RM_EVENTLOOP=false`
- `CSI_RM_EVENTLOOP_RESOLUTION=20`
- `CSI_RM_LOG_ALL_LOADS=0`

Boolean options must be set to `true` to enable. The eventloop resolution is how often it is
sampled internally by node; the setting is in milliseconds. The log-all-loads option, when non-
zero, causes all files that are loaded via `import` or `require` to be logged; the number is the
size in MB of the log file buffer because the default buffer size is not enough to handle the
large number of writes generated by this option.

The `route-metrics` log processor is also configured via environment variables.

- `CSI_RM_REPORTER=csv`   # json is also valid. the json reporter is a formatted dump of the raw data.
- `CSI_RM_OUTPUT=1`       # if numeric writes to that file descriptor, else writes to that file name.
- `CSI_RM_TEMPLATE`       # a template that defines how the output is grouped
- `CSI_RM_MICROSECONDS`   # report times in microseconds instead of milliseconds. (json reporter
always reports raw data, i.e., microseconds or, in the case of the eventloop delay, nanoseconds.)

## using a template

A template is a JavaScript file that is used to group routes into buckets. For
example, a route may have optional parameters or query params that would make
them appear, by default, as separate routes.

See example/template.js for a simple template with explanatory comments.

## design philosophy

`route-metrics` should have as low an impact on the server as possible. To this end, after startup,
it does everything asynchronously and as efficiently as possible. If you see anything that can be
made more efficient please submit an issue or, ideally, submit a PR.

While `route-metrics` strives to work correctly, it does not implement code to prevent garbage-in,
garbage-out. For example, providing `route-metrics` with an unwritable path will cause an EACCES
error to be thrown. Because the expected use is in a testing environment, this seems reasonable. If
it turns out to be a bad decision, appropriate fallbacks can be implemented.

`route-metrics` is also written with minimal production dependencies. At this time `shimmer` is the
only one.

## limitations

- works only with node versions >= 18.19.0
- does not report on web sockets
- `log-processor` has minimal automated testing; manual testing has revealed no inconsistencies
or errors.

## breaking changes

v1 => v2
- `route-metrics` must be invoked using `--import`. `--require` is no longer supported.
- node versions < 18.19.0 are no longer supported.
- `proc` entries now report raw data, not averages, for memory. the names have been
changed to reflect that (`heapUsedAvg` => `heapUsed` and `externalAvg` to `external`).
- `arrayBuffers` have been added to the `proc` entry.
- the averaging interval was removed. It was not documented and shouldn't cause any
issues.

Commit message:

Node 3680 rwb enhancements (#26)
* don't replace defaults with empty env vars
* invoke interval handler on SIGINT
* fix always-on loads
* add tests for 'load' events
* version 2.0.0

README.md, after:

# route-metrics

`route-metrics` allows server performance, exclusive of network time,
to be compared on a route-by-route basis. It was created to compare server
performance with and without `@contrast/agent` being loaded and active.

`route-metrics` measures the elapsed time of http/https requests from the
the time that the `request` event is emitted to the time the response's
`end` function is called. Elapsed time is measured in microseconds but is
output in milliseconds by default.

`route-metrics` writes a log file in which each line is JSON. the log files
can be interpreted using the included `log-processor`.

## usage

As usual, execute `npm install @contrast/route-metrics` to install it.

But, unlike most packages, `route-metrics` is not required by your program.
The `route-metrics` agent must be run by importing it on the node command line.

```
$ node --import @contrast/route-metrics my-web-server.js
```

If another package, say `@contrast/agent`, is being required on the command
line, then `route-metrics` must be required first:

```
$ node --import @contrast/route-metrics -r @contrast/agent my-web-server.js
```

This allows server performance, exclusive of network time, to be compared
with and without other packages installed. `route-metrics` writes a json
log file, `route-metrics.log` by default.

### benchmarking

A primary use case for `route-metrics` is benchmark performance of different
configurations. Because the time-series data is written on intervals, it's
possible that the last `proc`, `eventloop`, and `gc` entries will be before
the last of the `route` entries in the log file, so they won't encompass the
entire set of requests in the benchmark.

Send a `SIGINT` signal to the node process and `route-metrics` will write the
time-series data. It only listens for `SIGINT` once, but should get the signal
before the application process does. This has been tested on Linux, not Macs.
It does not work on Windows - the program gets the `SIGINT` on `^C`, but not
when signaled via `childprocess.kill('SIGINT')`.

## processing the log file

Once the `route-metrics` agent has been used to generate a log file, it's
useful to do something with the output. The included log-processor can be
executed via `npm run log-processor` and will look for the default log file
in the current directory, `./route-metrics.log`. To specify a different log
file or location, `npm run log-processor dir/other-file-name.log`.

The log processor will read the log file, output some informational text,
and use the requested reporter to write the output.

Informational output is enclosed in brackets, e.g., `[this is information]`. So
if the reporter is writing to the default, file descriptor 1 (stdout), the lines
enclosed in brackets are not part of the report. They should all preceed the
reporter output in any case.

### csv reporter output

The first line after the informational lines is the header line.

The percentiles are calculated using the smallest value that is greater than
or equal to the specified percentile of values; no interpolation is done.

### json reporter output

This reporter writes no informational output. It writes the data gathered from
the log file as a single JSON object. The code is the only documentation for it
at this time.

## configuration

All route-metrics agent configuration is done via environment variables. The environment variables
are shown with their default values.

- `CSI_RM_LOG_FILE=route-metrics.log`
- `CSI_RM_GARBAGE_COLLECTION=false`
- `CSI_RM_EVENTLOOP=false`
- `CSI_RM_EVENTLOOP_RESOLUTION=20`
- `CSI_RM_LOG_ALL_LOADS=0`

Boolean options must be set to `true` to enable. The eventloop resolution is how often it is
sampled internally by node; the setting is in milliseconds. The log-all-loads option, when non-
zero, causes all files that are loaded via `import` or `require` to be logged; the number is the
size in MB of the log file buffer because the default buffer size is not enough to handle the
large number of writes generated by this option.

The `route-metrics` log processor is also configured via environment variables.

- `CSI_RM_REPORTER=csv`   # json is also valid. the json reporter is a formatted dump of the raw data.
- `CSI_RM_OUTPUT=1`       # if numeric writes to that file descriptor, else writes to that file name.
- `CSI_RM_TEMPLATE`       # a template that defines how the output is grouped
- `CSI_RM_MICROSECONDS`   # report times in microseconds instead of milliseconds. (json reporter
always reports raw data, i.e., microseconds or, in the case of the eventloop delay, nanoseconds.)

## using a template

A template is a JavaScript file that is used to group routes into buckets. For
example, a route may have optional parameters or query params that would make
them appear, by default, as separate routes.

See example/template.js for a simple template with explanatory comments.

## design philosophy

`route-metrics` should have as low an impact on the server as possible. To this end, after startup,
it does everything asynchronously and as efficiently as possible. If you see anything that can be
made more efficient please submit an issue or, ideally, submit a PR.

While `route-metrics` strives to work correctly, it does not implement code to prevent garbage-in,
garbage-out. For example, providing `route-metrics` with an unwritable path will cause an EACCES
error to be thrown. Because the expected use is in a testing environment, this seems reasonable. If
it turns out to be a bad decision, appropriate fallbacks can be implemented.

`route-metrics` is also written with minimal production dependencies. At this time `shimmer` is the
only one.

## limitations

- works only with node versions >= 18.19.0
- does not report on web sockets
- `log-processor` has minimal automated testing; manual testing has revealed no inconsistencies
or errors.

## breaking changes

v1 => v2
- `route-metrics` must be invoked using `--import`. `--require` is no longer supported.
- node versions < 18.19.0 are no longer supported.
- `proc` entries now report raw data, not averages, for memory. the names have been
changed to reflect that (`heapUsedAvg` => `heapUsed` and `externalAvg` to `external`).
- `arrayBuffers` have been added to the `proc` entry.
- the averaging interval was removed. It was not documented and shouldn't cause any
issues.
